ttl: add ttl_running_tasks sysvar (#12702)
pingcap/docs: time-to-live.md

Reviewer: Remove L18-L22
https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/0645d55bc4471670ebc59f7ece192fcf712bf456/time-to-live.md?plain=1#L18-L22

`TTL_JOB_INTERVAL` is set to `1h` by default.

> When executing a TTL job, TiDB will split the table into up to 64 tasks, with the `Region` being the smallest unit. These tasks will be executed distributedly. You can limit the number of TTL tasks that can be executed simultaneously across the entire cluster by setting the system variable [`tidb_ttl_running_tasks`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_running_tasks-new-in-v700). However, not all TTL jobs for all kinds of tables can be split into tasks. Please refer to the [Limitations](#limitations) section to understand which kinds of tables' TTL jobs cannot be split into tasks.

Author: I added a new description for the TTL task (distributed execution) and the limitation for it. PTAL @lcwangchao @ran-huang

Reviewer 2: lgtm

> When executing a TTL job, TiDB will split the table into up to 64 tasks, with the `Region` being the smallest unit. These tasks will be executed distributedly. You can limit the number of TTL tasks that can be executed simultaneously across the entire cluster by setting the system variable [`tidb_ttl_running_tasks`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_running_tasks-new-in-v700). However, not all TTL jobs for all kinds of tables can be split into tasks. Please refer to the [Limitations](#limitations) section to understand which kinds of tables' TTL jobs cannot be split into tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When executing a TTL job, TiDB will split the table into up to 64 tasks, with the Region being the smallest unit. These tasks will be executed distributedly. You can limit the number of concurrent TTL tasks across the entire cluster by setting the system variable [`tidb_ttl_running_tasks`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_running_tasks-new-in-v700). However, not all TTL jobs for all kinds of tables can be split into tasks. For more details on which kinds of tables' TTL jobs cannot be split into tasks, refer to the [Limitations](#limitations) section.
```

| TiCDC | v7.0.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. The upstream TTL deletions will be synchronized to the downstream. Therefore, to prevent duplicate deletions, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the downstream tables will be forcibly set to `OFF`. |

## Compatibility with SQL

| Feature name | Description |
| :-- | :---- |
| [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) |  `FLASHBACK TABLE` will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables to `OFF`. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after the flashback. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |
| [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | `FLASHBACK DATABASE` will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables to `OFF`, and the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute will not be modified. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after the flashback. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |

> | [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) | `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` will set the system variable [`TIDB_TTL_JOB_ENABLE`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_job_enable-new-in-v650) to `OFF`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) | `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` will set the system variable [`TIDB_TTL_JOB_ENABLE`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_job_enable-new-in-v650) to `OFF` and do not change the value of the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute. |
```

Reviewer 2: @YangKeao PTAL

Author: Done. Thanks :heart:

    The column `table_id` is the ID of the partitioned table, and the `parent_table_id` is the ID of the table, corresponding with the ID in  `infomation_schema.tables`. `table_schema`, `table_name`, and `partition_name` correspond to the database, table name, and partition name. `create_time`, `finish_time`, and `ttl_expire` indicate the creation time, end time, and expiration time of the TTL task. `expired_rows` and `deleted_rows` indicate the number of expired rows and the number of rows deleted successfully.

## Compatibility with TiDB tools and features

TTL can be used with other TiDB migration, backup, and recovery tools.

| Tool Name | Minimum supported version | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Backup & Restore (BR) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of table will be set to `OFF`. |
| TiDB Lightning | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of imported table will be set to `OFF`.  |
| Dumpling | 6.6 |
| TiCDC | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. |
| TiDB Binlog | 7.0 | If the downstream of drainer is TiDB/MySQL database. The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of it will be set to `OFF`. |

> | Flashback | | [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) and [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables to `OFF`. [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) will set the system variable `TTL_JOB_ENABLE` to `OFF`, and the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute will not be modified. |

Reviewer 2: 感觉还是单独拆出来 一个标题 `## compatibility with SQL` 之类的比较合适

Author: Done

## Compatibility with TiDB tools

TTL can be used with other TiDB migration, backup, and recovery tools.

| Tool Name | Minimum supported version | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Backup & Restore (BR)](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of table will be set to `OFF`. |
| [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of imported table will be set to `OFF`.  |
| [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) | 6.6 | / |
| [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. |
| [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md) | 7.0 | If the downstream of drainer is TiDB/MySQL database. The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of it will be set to `OFF`. |

> | Flashback | | Running flashback on a table or database will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the table to `OFF`. Running flashback on the whole TiDB cluster will set the system variable `TTL_JOB_ENABLE` to `OFF`, and the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute will not be modified. |

Author: 标题改成 Compatibility with TiDB tools and features ?

## Compatibility with TiDB tools

TTL can be used with other TiDB migration, backup, and recovery tools.

| Tool Name | Minimum supported version | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Backup & Restore (BR) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of table will be set to `OFF`. |
| TiDB Lightning | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of imported table will be set to `OFF`.  |
| TiCDC | 7.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. |

## Compatibility with SQL

> | Feature Name | Minimum supported version | Description |
> | Flashback | | [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) and [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables to `OFF`. [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) will set the system variable [`TIDB_TTL_JOB_ENABLE`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_job_enable-new-in-v650) to `OFF`, and the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute will not be modified. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Feature Name | Minimum supported version | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :---- | 
| [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) | v4.0 |  `FLASHBACK TABLE` will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables to `OFF`. |
| [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | v6.4.0 | `FLASHBACK DATABASE` will set the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables to `OFF`, and the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute will not be modified. |
| [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) | v6.4.0 | `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` will set the system variable [`TIDB_TTL_JOB_ENABLE`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ttl_job_enable-new-in-v650) to `OFF`. |
```

## Compatibility with TiDB tools

TTL can be used with other TiDB migration, backup, and recovery tools.

> | Tool Name | Minimum supported version | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Tool name | Minimum supported version | Description |
```

| --- | --- | --- |

> | Backup & Restore (BR) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of table will be set to `OFF`. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after backup and restore. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Backup & Restore (BR) | 6.6 | After you restore data using BR, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables will be set to `OFF`. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after backup and restore. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |
```

> | Backup & Restore (BR) | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of table will be set to `OFF`. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after backup and restore. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Backup & Restore (BR) | v6.6.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of table will be set to `OFF`. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after backup and restore. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |
```

> | TiDB Lightning | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of imported table will be set to `OFF`.  This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after importing. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | 6.6 | After you import data using TiDB Lighting, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the imported table will be set to `OFF`.  This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after importing. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |
```

> | TiDB Lightning | 6.6 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of imported table will be set to `OFF`.  This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after importing. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | v6.6.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of imported table will be set to `OFF`.  This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after importing. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |
```

> | TiCDC | 7.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. The upstream TTL deletion will be synchronized to the downstream. Therefore, to prevent duplicate deletions, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the downstream tables will be forcibly set to OFF. |

Author: @ran-huang PTAL. I added more description about why this attribute is set to OFF, and tell the user how they should do to re-enable the TTL feature.

> | TiCDC | 7.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. The upstream TTL deletion will be synchronized to the downstream. Therefore, to prevent duplicate deletions, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the downstream tables will be forcibly set to OFF. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | v7.0.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. The upstream TTL deletion will be synchronized to the downstream. Therefore, to prevent duplicate deletions, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the downstream tables will be forcibly set to OFF. |
```

## Compatibility with SQL

> | Feature Name | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Feature name | Description |
```

## Compatibility with TiDB tools

TTL can be used with other TiDB migration, backup, and recovery tools.

| Tool name | Minimum supported version | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Backup & Restore (BR) | v6.6.0 | After you restore data using BR, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the tables will be set to `OFF`. This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after backup and restore. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |
| TiDB Lightning | v6.6.0 | After you import data using TiDB Lighting, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the imported table will be set to `OFF`.  This prevents TiDB from immediately deleting expired data after importing. You need to manually turn on the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute to re-enable TTL for each table. |

> | TiCDC | v7.0.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. The upstream TTL deletion will be synchronized to the downstream. Therefore, to prevent duplicate deletions, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the downstream tables will be forcibly set to OFF. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | v7.0.0 | The `TTL_ENABLE` attribute in the downstream will be automatically set to `OFF`. The upstream TTL deletions will be synchronized to the downstream. Therefore, to prevent duplicate deletions, the `TTL_ENABLE` attribute of the downstream tables will be forcibly set to `OFF`. |
```

* The TTL attribute cannot be set on temporary tables, including local temporary tables and global temporary tables.
* A table with the TTL attribute does not support being referenced by other tables as the primary table in a foreign key constraint.
* It is not guaranteed that all expired data is deleted immediately. The time when expired data is deleted depends on the scheduling interval and scheduling window of the background cleanup job.
* For tables that use [clustered indexes](/clustered-indexes.md), if the primary key is neither an integer nor a binary string type, the TTL job cannot be split into multiple tasks. This will cause the TTL job to be executed sequentially on a single TiDB node. If the table contains a large amount of data, the execution of the TTL job might become slow.

> * TTL is not available for [TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier#serverless-tier-beta). 

Author: I added a new limitation for serverless tier. PTAL @ran-huang @Oreoxmt

* The TTL attribute cannot be set on temporary tables, including local temporary tables and global temporary tables.
* A table with the TTL attribute does not support being referenced by other tables as the primary table in a foreign key constraint.
* It is not guaranteed that all expired data is deleted immediately. The time when expired data is deleted depends on the scheduling interval and scheduling window of the background cleanup job.

> * For tables that use [clustered indexes](/clustered-indexes.md), if the primary key is not of integer or binary string type, the TTL job cannot be split into multiple tasks. This will cause the TTL job to be executed sequentially on a single TiDB node. If the table contains a large amount of data, the execution of the TTL job may become slow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For tables that use [clustered indexes](/clustered-indexes.md), if the primary key is neither an integer nor a binary string type, the TTL job cannot be split into multiple tasks. This will cause the TTL job to be executed sequentially on a single TiDB node. If the table contains a large amount of data, the execution of the TTL job might become slow.
```
